---
layout: post
title: "Prologue"
---

### The Beginning

It is that time, when I, a senior developer of twelve years, finally staves off the laziness of not writing down my adventures, discoveries, and frustrations in respect to web development (mostly) and other things I am equally passionate about. Let's start off by answering one of those questions that us developers have while stumbling on a blog: "Is this information valuable to me?". The answer is "maybe". If you like to talk about Ruby, Rails, Vue, Javascript, enterprise architecture, working in a startup, and similar things...then you will likely find something of value in these pages.

I am Casey Provost, a self-taught "full stack" developer who has been building apps of all various shapes and sizes since 2007. My comfortable stack is Rails with ES6/7/8 with Postgres, but I also enjoy and write Crystal, Vue, Node, and CSS. Recently I have been doing a lot more "enterprise" and have found that the interwebs are lacking in information about working on Rails in that ecosystem.

There are myths out there that Ruby is not fast or robust enough to be an enterprise tool and that it lacks proper concurrrency support. While that last point might be true; Ruby is still an amazing tool for enterprise companies building modern applications, proofs of concept, or even command line tools! I sincerely hope that over time and through many articles I can help spread Ruby even more than it is now and share my undending happiness of programming in languages that are just pure joy.


### Is this a book or blog?

Yes, I know...the headings of this blog are shaped like those of a book. Why? For no better reason really than I really enjoy writing and thought it would bring a fun and unique format for you readers to enjoy. If one day I am able to put some of the content of this site into a book that woudld be marvelous, but for now I am happy to sit in the clean white light of my monitor here and share with you what I know and maybe even make you smirk or laugh once in a while.

### Credit Where Credit Is Due
Before I start sharing my journey and discoveries I would like to take this opportunity to thank my wife for her unending support of my career. Even now, while I am upstairs in my home office (remote worker woot woot), she is downstairs helping our ten year old with his homework. It is only with her support that I have time to do things like writing articles for this blog, contributing to open source, and experiment with side projects/businesses.

I would also be remis if I didn't mention many of those who have helped me along the way such as Nick Mathis, Tom Dana, Chris Kincanon. They were and some still are excellent mentors that have constantly pushed me to raise the bar. Lastly, I want to give a few special shout outs to some internet personalities and OS maintainers who have given so much to the community and to me.

* Lee Richmod (https://github.com/graphiti-api/graphiti), made my life of building JSONAPI Spec compliant APIs so much easier in Rails.
* The Capybara team (https://github.com/teamcapybara/capybara) who over many years has made it possible for devs around the world to properly test the UI/UX of their application
* The RSpec Crew (https://github.com/rspec/rspec) wonderful folks who made testing fun again
* The Rails core team (https://github.com/rails/rails) who are largely responsible for making me love what I do

There is of course so many more, but who wants to read an unending list of OS repositories and maintainers? Suffice to say that I love open source and the community that continues to build it up. We may all get a little crazy from time to time *cough* node packages *cough*, but I wouldn't trade what we have all accomplished and built for the world.
